---
layout: post
title:      "Why did you decide to study Software Engineering?"
date:       2020-09-11 22:15:26 +0000
permalink:  why_did_you_decide_to_study_software_engineering
---

It is always interesting to find out why people decided to study and go into a certain field. To understand why I am wanting to study software engineering, you need to understand how I got to this point in my life. 

A good number of years ago, when I graduated High School and my plan for a career was to become a veterinarian. With my good grades and a uninformed, rose-colored view on college, I attended the University of Utah's BS degree in pre-veterinary biology. I enjoyed most of my classes, though I did struggle through some, I still found them intersting. I never did apply for veterinary school due to cost and still being uncertain if I wanted to go or not. While going through the biology program, I decided to take some interesting and unrelated classes to explore what was out there. I found multiple classes in the psychology department that I enjoyed. This is how I graduated with a BS in biology and a minor in psychology. Though I had this fancy degree, I was unable to get a job in the field due to not having experience and that the biology degree is mainly used as a stepping stone into another specialty. After many months of applying and getting no where, I decided it was time for a change.

I also got a job in the veterinary field as a receptionist to gain experience and get an idea of what the field is actually like early in my college career. The first clinic I worked at was, for all its natural flaws, one of the best and I was fortunate to get that job as my first. The staff was amazing and they were really flexible about my schooling, and plus they were more than happy to cross-train me with some veterinary technician knowledge. I did get frustrated in that I was not getting a full training as technician, but I understood due to me being part-time. My family then moved further north and I got a new job, still in the veterinary field and still a receptionist. Though I was a receptionist again, I was still content because I had my hands full going to college full-time. I eventually became dissatisfied due to some managerial issues and wanting to move up in the veterinary buisness to a technician. I had graduated from college at this point. I moved to an exotic veterinary practice, again as a receptionist due to them being really short-handed, with the firm agreement that I would be trained as a technician. This manager, I soon found out, was dishonest, manipulative, and toxic. She told some other staff that she would not be cross-training any reception to for veterinary technicians, and I then left. Also at this point, I decided that the veterinary field was not for me, due to seeing the inner workings and also being snubbed so often. I figured it was also my God's will (I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints) that I did not belong in the veterinary field at this time. 

While looking for jobs at home and I suffering throught the last 2 weeks of that job, I was decompressing on the app TikTok and saw a post by this genuine young woman who was explaining how she went into her career into software engineering. I was interested, so I watched her other videos and decided to try it out. Researching it some more, I decided that this felt right and was interesting, so I applied. 

I have also been relatively good at figuring out how computers work, and am the go-to for fixing tech in my family. Computer science or a related degree in college was deliberated superficially in the beginning, but I was committed to biology so it never got the attention it probably deserved in the decision making process. I am also not going to lie, the monetary return for this degree is also attractive to me. My family has always struggled living paycheck to paycheck, and with this degree I would be able to help support them and live a good life. I heard somewhere that: "we were put on this earth to live, not just to work and pay bills," and that has resonated with me. This career would give me and my family that freedom. To travel, to explore, and to experience life to a better degree than we are now.

So the whole jist of this rambling summary of my life, trying to answer the question "why did you decide to study Software Engineering?" is that I enjoy understanding and delving into computers and that it provides financial security.



